# BUDGET WEB APP
#### Video Demo:
#### Description:

For my final project, I've created a budgetting application. In short, users are able to track how much 'profit' they've made in a given month, clearly showing them how much they're saving. What's more, users are able to upload CSV files from their bank to add transactions quickly to their profile.

First, users are prompted to log in or to register for an account if they do not yet have one. They'll be alerted for such things as if a usernam is already taken, or if their passwords do not match (similar to the behaviour in the "Finance" assignment).

Once logged in for the first time, the app will guide users to the main "Budget Summary" page for the month (the default month being the month/year in which they created their account). It'll show the total Profit/Loss for that month, as well as two tables separated into two sections: "Income" and "Expenditures". Within those tables, data is further separated into categories. The system will start users off with three default categories ("Salary/Wages" (income), "Gas/Transportation" (expense), and "Entertainment" (expense)). Users are able to delete these expenses if they wish, using the "Delete" buttons next to the category table rows. Users can also create new categories (either income or expense) from the home page; when clicking on "Add category", users will type in a category name as well as a starting budget (Note though that if the category name is already in use by the user, it will fail to create the new category). Once created, the category can be used right away. Users can also adjust the name of the category, and the total budget for that category as well for the given month. Lastly, if there are transactions for the current month that aren't assigned to a category, the total of those transactions will add together and be labelled on the homepage as "Unassigned transactions", guiding the user to review those transactions to make sure everything is assigned properly (more on this later)

Note all categories created and any name changes made to those categories carry over to past and future months. If a user is changing a category's budget amount, that change will only apply for the current month in which the change was made (for example: If Entertainment's initial starting budget was $100 when it was created, but the user wants to change it to $200 for November 2024, they can do this and it will not affect other months.

To add transactions, users can go to the "Transactions" page. From there, you can cycle between months to either view or add transactions. Or, users can click the "Show transactions from all months" checkbox to see everything all at once. This page is also where users can change the categories associated with transactions via a dropdown menu for each transaction line in the transactions table. Users can also change such things as the amounts, descriptions, and dates for the transactions; and, users can delete individual transactions if they wish. Lastly, users may also manually add transactions, either in batches or one at a time, defining the date, description, amount, and category.

Finally, users may also upload a CSV to automatically import transactions. To do so, they go to the "Upload CSV" page. After uploading a valid CSV file from their computer, users will be able to review their transactions in an easy-to-read table. Users can review the transactions, changing the categories for them before submitting the upload; or, if the user wishes to exclude any transactions from upload they can just delete those relevant lines. Before uploading, to ensure the application can read their data correctly, users must select the 'header' names fo each of the relevenat fields (i.e. Date, Description, and Amount). After doing so and submitting, these transactions will now show up in the "Transactions" page.

From a design perspective, I began with the idea that categories could be just tied to the specific month that they're apart of; in the SQL database, the "Categories" table, in addition to id, user_id, name, and categorytype, also had amount, budget, month, and year as table columns. At a certain point this approach became pretty annoying to work with and would have resulted in confusion from a user's perspective. For example, if a user created the "Meals" category in November but not in December, they'd have to re-create it. It would also cause confusion when assigning categories to their transactions - it would be confusing having some categories available for some transactions and not others. Therefore, I figured that having unique categories for different months was not worth the initial design complications this would cause, so I decided to make categories "global" - when you made a category in November, it would be available for use in December and all future and past months. I moved the "amount, budget, month, and year" columns into a new "monthly_budget" table, which still allowed for unique budgets across the months for the same categories.
